Support K-12 Computer ScienceEducation in MississippiComputer science drives job growth and innovation throughoutour economy and society. Computing occupations are thenumber 1 source of all new wages in the U.S. and makeup two-thirds of all projected new jobs in STEM fields, makingComputer Science one of the most in-demand college degrees.And computing is used all around us and in virtually everyfield. It’s foundational knowledge that all students need. Butcomputer science is marginalized throughout education. Fewerthan half of U.S. schools offer any computer science coursesand only 8% of STEM graduates study it. We need to improveaccess for all students, including groups who have traditionallybeen underrepresented.Computer science in MississippiMississippi currently has 1,214 open computing jobs (4.7 times the average demand rate inMississippi).The average salary for a computing occupation in MS is $68,975, which is significantly higher than theaverage salary in the state ($37,620). The existing open jobs alone represent a $83,735,650 opportunityin terms of annual salaries.Mississippi had only 153 computer science graduates in 2014; only 14% were female.Only 16 high school students in Mississippi took the AP Computer Science exam in 2016; none werefemale; only 1 student was Hispanic or Latino; no students were Black; no students were Native Americanor Alaska Native; no students were Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander.Only 3 schools in MS (2% of MS schools with AP programs) offered the AP Computer Science course in2015-2016. There are fewer AP exams taken in computer science than in any other STEM subject area.What can you do to improveK-12 CS education?1.  Call on your school to expand computer scienceofferings at every grade level.2.  Ask your local school district to allow computer sciencecourses to satisfy a core math or science requirement.3.  Visit www.code.org/educate/3rdparty to find out aboutcourses and curriculum from a variety of third parties,including Code.org.4.  Visit www.code.org/promote/MS to learn more aboutsupporting computer science in your state.5.  Sign the petition at www.change.org/computerscience tojoin 100,000 Americans asking Congress to supportcomputer science.Code.org's Impact in MississippiThere are 1,464 teacher accounts and 35,685 student accounts in Code Studio in Mississippi.Code.org and 1 facilitator have provided professional learning for 38 teachers in CS Fundamentals (K-5) inMississippi.“Computer Science is a liberal art: it’s something thateverybody should be exposed to and everyone shouldhave a mastery of to some extent.”— Steve JobsWhat can the federal government do to supportcomputer science in grades K-12?Access to computer science courses is a bipartisan issue that can be addressed without adding to the Federalbudget. Tell your representatives in Washington, D.C. that you support funding to expand access to thisfoundational 21st-century subject in your community that will America remain secure and globally competitive.Over 100,000 Americans, CEOs of the largest companies in every major industry, 29 governors, and major K-12education leaders have all joined forces to call on Congress to support this idea. You can see their open letter(and add your name in support) at www.change.org/computerscience.What can your state do to improve computerscience education?States and local school districts need to adopt a broad policy framework to provide all students with access tocomputer science. The following nine recommendations are a menu of best practices that states can choose fromto support and expand computer science. Not all states will be in a position to adopt all of the policies. Read moreabout these 9 policy ideas at https://code.org/files/Making_CS_Fundamental.pdf and see our rubric for describingstate policies at http://bit.ly/9policiesrubric. Mississippi has not yet created a state plan for K-12 computer science. A plan that articulates the goals forcomputer science, strategies for accomplishing the goals, and timelines for carrying out the strategies isimportant for making computer science a fundamental part of a state’s education system. Mississippi does not yet have rigorous computer science standards publicly available across K-12.Computer science has often been confused with broader technology education in schools. The state couldstrengthen its computer science programs by publicly adopting discrete standards for computer sciencefocused on both the creation and use of software and computing technologies at all levels of K-12 education.These standards can be guided by the concepts, practices, and recommendations in the K-12 ComputerScience Framework, found at http://www.k12cs.org. Mississippi does not yet provide dedicated funding for rigorous computer science professionaldevelopment and course support. Although funds may be available via broader programs, the state canstrengthen its computer science programs by creating specific opportunities to bring computer science toschool districts, such as matching fund programs. Mississippi has clear certification pathways for computer science teachers. Mississippi has not yet established programs at institutions of higher education to offer computer scienceto preservice teachers. The computer science teacher shortage can be addressed by exposing morepreservice teachers to computer science during their required coursework or by creating specific pathways forcomputer science teachers. Mississippi does not yet have dedicated computer science positions in state or local education authorities.Creating a statewide computer science leadership position within the state education authority can help expandstate-level implementation of computer science education initiatives. Similar positions at the local level couldsupport districts’ expansion of course offerings and professional development. Mississippi does not yet require that all secondary schools offer computer science. The state can supportthe expansion of computer science courses by adopting policies that require schools to offer a computerscience course based on rigorous standards, with appropriate implementation timelines and allowing forremote and/or in-person courses. Mississippi does not yet allow computer science to count for a core graduation requirement. States thatcount computer science as a core graduation requirement see 50% more enrollment in their AP ComputerScience courses and increased participation from underrepresented minorities. Find out how other states allowcomputer science to count towards graduation at http://bit.ly/1Is6YXS. Mississippi does not yet allow computer science to count as a core admission requirement at institutionsof higher education. Admission policies that do not include rigorous computer science courses as meeting acore entrance requirement, such as in mathematics or science, discourage students from taking such coursesin secondary education. State leaders can work with institutions of higher education to ensure credit andarticulation policies align with secondary school graduation requirements.Follow us!Join our efforts to give every student in every school the opportunity to learn computer science. Learn more atcode.org, or follow us on Facebook and Twitter.Launched in 2013, Code.org® is a non-profit dedicated to expanding access to computer science, and increasingparticipation by women and underrepresented students of color. Our vision is that every student in every schoolshould have the opportunity to learn computer science.Data is from the Conference Board for job demand, the Bureau of Labor Statistics for state salary and national job projections data, theCollege Board for AP exam data, the National Center for Education Statistics for university graduate data, the Gallup and Googleresearch study Education Trends in the State of Computer Science in U.S. K-12 Schools for schools that offer computer science andparent demand, and Code.org for its own courses, professional learning programs, and participation data.