Support K-12 Computer ScienceEducation in PennsylvaniaComputer science drives job growth and innovation throughoutour economy and society. Computing occupations are thenumber 1 source of all new wages in the U.S. and makeup two-thirds of all projected new jobs in STEM fields, makingComputer Science one of the most in-demand college degrees.And computing is used all around us and in virtually everyfield. It’s foundational knowledge that all students need. Butcomputer science is marginalized throughout education. Fewerthan half of U.S. schools offer any computer science coursesand only 8% of STEM graduates study it. We need to improveaccess for all students, including groups who have traditionallybeen underrepresented.Computer science in PennsylvaniaPennsylvania currently has 17,392 open computing jobs (3.2 times the average demand rate inPennsylvania).The average salary for a computing occupation in PA is $83,233, which is significantly higher than theaverage salary in the state ($46,550). The existing open jobs alone represent a $1,447,588,336opportunity in terms of annual salaries.Pennsylvania had only 2,820 computer science graduates in 2014; only 20% were female.Only 1,891 high school students in Pennsylvania took the AP Computer Science exam in 2016; only 16%were female; only 83 students were Hispanic or Latino; only 51 students were Black; no students wereNative American or Alaska Native; only 1 student was Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander.Only 169 schools in PA (22% of PA schools with AP programs) offered the AP Computer Science course in2015-2016. There are fewer AP exams taken in computer science than in any other STEM subject area.What can you do to improveK-12 CS education?1.  Call on your school to expand computer scienceofferings at every grade level.2.  Ask your local school district to allow computer sciencecourses to satisfy a core math or science requirement.3.  Visit www.code.org/educate/3rdparty to find out aboutcourses and curriculum from a variety of third parties,including Code.org.4.  Visit www.code.org/promote/PA to learn more aboutsupporting computer science in your state.5.  Sign the petition at www.change.org/computerscience tojoin 100,000 Americans asking Congress to supportcomputer science.Code.org's Impact in PennsylvaniaThere are 6,443 teacher accounts and 289,013 student accounts in Code Studio in Pennsylvania.Code.org, its regional partner(s) Delaware County Intermediate Unit, and 4 facilitators have provided professionallearning for 1,664 teachers in CS Fundamentals (K-5) and 4 teachers in Computer Science Principles inPennsylvania.“Computer Science is a liberal art: it’s something thateverybody should be exposed to and everyone shouldhave a mastery of to some extent.”— Steve JobsWhat can the federal government do to supportcomputer science in grades K-12?Access to computer science courses is a bipartisan issue that can be addressed without adding to the Federalbudget. Tell your representatives in Washington, D.C. that you support funding to expand access to thisfoundational 21st-century subject in your community that will America remain secure and globally competitive.Over 100,000 Americans, CEOs of the largest companies in every major industry, 29 governors, and major K-12education leaders have all joined forces to call on Congress to support this idea. You can see their open letter(and add your name in support) at www.change.org/computerscience.What can your state do to improve computerscience education?States and local school districts need to adopt a broad policy framework to provide all students with access tocomputer science. The following nine recommendations are a menu of best practices that states can choose fromto support and expand computer science. Not all states will be in a position to adopt all of the policies. Read moreabout these 9 policy ideas at https://code.org/files/Making_CS_Fundamental.pdf and see our rubric for describingstate policies at http://bit.ly/9policiesrubric. Pennsylvania has not yet created a state plan for K-12 computer science. A plan that articulates the goalsfor computer science, strategies for accomplishing the goals, and timelines for carrying out the strategies isimportant for making computer science a fundamental part of a state’s education system. Pennsylvania does not yet have rigorous computer science standards publicly available across K-12.Computer science has often been confused with broader technology education in schools. The state couldstrengthen its computer science programs by publicly adopting discrete standards for computer sciencefocused on both the creation and use of software and computing technologies at all levels of K-12 education.These standards can be guided by the concepts, practices, and recommendations in the K-12 ComputerScience Framework, found at http://www.k12cs.org. Pennsylvania does not yet provide dedicated funding for rigorous computer science professionaldevelopment and course support. Although funds may be available via broader programs, the state canstrengthen its computer science programs by creating specific opportunities to bring computer science toschool districts, such as matching fund programs. Pennsylvania does not yet have clear certification pathways for computer science teachers. The expansionof K-12 computer science education is hampered by the lack of qualified computer science teachers. We cangrow their ranks by creating clear, navigable, and rewarding professional paths for computer science teachers. Pennsylvania has not yet established programs at institutions of higher education to offer computerscience to preservice teachers. The computer science teacher shortage can be addressed by exposing morepreservice teachers to computer science during their required coursework or by creating specific pathways forcomputer science teachers. Pennsylvania does not yet have dedicated computer science positions in state or local educationauthorities. Creating a statewide computer science leadership position within the state education authority canhelp expand state-level implementation of computer science education initiatives. Similar positions at the locallevel could support districts’ expansion of course offerings and professional development. Pennsylvania does not yet require that all secondary schools offer computer science. The state cansupport the expansion of computer science courses by adopting policies that require schools to offer acomputer science course based on rigorous standards, with appropriate implementation timelines and allowingfor remote and/or in-person courses. Pennsylvania has passed policy that is permissive and encouraging for schools to allow computer science tocount for a core graduation requirement, but it is not a requirement for schools. Find out how Pennsylvaniaallows computer science to count towards graduation at http://bit.ly/1Is6YXS. Pennsylvania does not yet allow computer science to count as a core admission requirement at institutionsof higher education. Admission policies that do not include rigorous computer science courses as meeting acore entrance requirement, such as in mathematics or science, discourage students from taking such coursesin secondary education. State leaders can work with institutions of higher education to ensure credit andarticulation policies align with secondary school graduation requirements.Follow us!Join our efforts to give every student in every school the opportunity to learn computer science. Learn more atcode.org, or follow us on Facebook and Twitter.Launched in 2013, Code.org® is a non-profit dedicated to expanding access to computer science, and increasingparticipation by women and underrepresented students of color. Our vision is that every student in every schoolshould have the opportunity to learn computer science.Data is from the Conference Board for job demand, the Bureau of Labor Statistics for state salary and national job projections data, theCollege Board for AP exam data, the National Center for Education Statistics for university graduate data, the Gallup and Googleresearch study Education Trends in the State of Computer Science in U.S. K-12 Schools for schools that offer computer science andparent demand, and Code.org for its own courses, professional learning programs, and participation data.