Support K-12 Computer ScienceEducation in WashingtonComputer science drives job growth and innovation throughoutour economy and society. Computing occupations are thenumber 1 source of all new wages in the U.S. and makeup two-thirds of all projected new jobs in STEM fields, makingComputer Science one of the most in-demand college degrees.And computing is used all around us and in virtually everyfield. It’s foundational knowledge that all students need. Butcomputer science is marginalized throughout education. Fewerthan half of U.S. schools offer any computer science coursesand only 8% of STEM graduates study it. We need to improveaccess for all students, including groups who have traditionallybeen underrepresented.Computer science in WashingtonWashington currently has 24,427 open computing jobs (3.2 times the average demand rate inWashington).The average salary for a computing occupation in WA is $105,584, which is significantly higher than theaverage salary in the state ($54,010). The existing open jobs alone represent a $2,579,100,368opportunity in terms of annual salaries.Washington had only 1,001 computer science graduates in 2014; only 20% were female.Only 1,945 high school students in Washington took the AP Computer Science exam in 2016; only 30%were female; only 102 students were Hispanic or Latino; only 38 students were Black; only 3 students wereNative American or Alaska Native; only 5 students were Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander.Only 98 schools in WA (23% of WA schools with AP programs) offered the AP Computer Science course in2015-2016. There are fewer AP exams taken in computer science than in any other STEM subject area.What can you do to improveK-12 CS education?1.  Call on your school to expand computer scienceofferings at every grade level.2.  Ask your local school district to allow computer sciencecourses to satisfy a core math or science requirement.3.  Visit www.code.org/educate/3rdparty to find out aboutcourses and curriculum from a variety of third parties,including Code.org.4.  Visit www.code.org/promote/WA to learn more aboutsupporting computer science in your state.5.  Sign the petition at www.change.org/computerscience tojoin 100,000 Americans asking Congress to supportcomputer science.Code.org's Impact in WashingtonThere are 20,619 teacher accounts and 506,611 student accounts in Code Studio in Washington.Code.org, its regional partner(s) NorthEast Washington Educational Service District 101 and Puget SoundEducational Service District, and 14 facilitators have provided professional learning for 984 teachers in CSFundamentals (K-5) , 93 teachers in Exploring Computer Science, and 48 teachers in Computer Science Principlesin Washington.“Computer Science is a liberal art: it’s something thateverybody should be exposed to and everyone shouldhave a mastery of to some extent.”— Steve JobsWhat can the federal government do to supportcomputer science in grades K-12?Access to computer science courses is a bipartisan issue that can be addressed without adding to the Federalbudget. Tell your representatives in Washington, D.C. that you support funding to expand access to thisfoundational 21st-century subject in your community that will America remain secure and globally competitive.Over 100,000 Americans, CEOs of the largest companies in every major industry, 29 governors, and major K-12education leaders have all joined forces to call on Congress to support this idea. You can see their open letter(and add your name in support) at www.change.org/computerscience.What can your state do to improve computerscience education?science education?States and local school districts need to adopt a broad policy framework to provide all students with access tocomputer science. The following nine recommendations are a menu of best practices that states can choose fromto support and expand computer science. Not all states will be in a position to adopt all of the policies. Read moreabout these 9 policy ideas at https://code.org/files/Making_CS_Fundamental.pdf and see our rubric for describingstate policies at http://bit.ly/9policiesrubric. Washington has not yet created a state plan for K-12 computer science. A plan that articulates the goals forcomputer science, strategies for accomplishing the goals, and timelines for carrying out the strategies isimportant for making computer science a fundamental part of a state’s education system. Washington has established K-12 computer science standards. Washington has allocated funding for rigorous computer science professional development and coursesupport. Washington has clear certification pathways for computer science teachers. Washington has not yet established programs at institutions of higher education to offer computer scienceto preservice teachers. The computer science teacher shortage can be addressed by exposing morepreservice teachers to computer science during their required coursework or by creating specific pathways forcomputer science teachers. Washington has a dedicated computer science position in the state education authority. Washington does not yet require that all secondary schools offer computer science. The state can supportthe expansion of computer science courses by adopting policies that require schools to offer a computerscience course based on rigorous standards, with appropriate implementation timelines and allowing forremote and/or in-person courses. Washington allows computer science to count for a core graduation requirement. Find out how Washingtonallows computer science to count towards graduation at http://bit.ly/1Is6YXS. Washington allows computer science to count as a core admission requirement at institutions of highereducation.Follow us!Join our efforts to give every student in every school the opportunity to learn computer science. Learn more atcode.org, or follow us on Facebook and Twitter.Launched in 2013, Code.org® is a non-profit dedicated to expanding access to computer science, and increasingparticipation by women and underrepresented students of color. Our vision is that every student in every schoolshould have the opportunity to learn computer science.Data is from the Conference Board for job demand, the Bureau of Labor Statistics for state salary and national job projections data, theCollege Board for AP exam data, the National Center for Education Statistics for university graduate data, the Gallup and Googleresearch study Education Trends in the State of Computer Science in U.S. K-12 Schools for schools that offer computer science andparent demand, and Code.org for its own courses, professional learning programs, and participation data.